Museum Visitor Engagement Through Resonant,
Rich and Interactive Experiences

A thesis submitted to the School of Design, Carnegie Mellon University,
for the degree of Master of Design in Interaction Design

Cheryl A. Templeton

Professor Mark Baskinger

 c 2011 Cheryl A. Templeton



Cheryl A. Templeton                 i

Abstract

Museum Visitor Engagement Through Resonant, Rich and Interactive Experiences
Cheryl A. Templeton

Master of Design in Interaction Design, Carnegie Mellon University
Advisor Mark Baskinger

Museums are vast resources, but much of their information is inaccessible to 
visitors.
Typical labels for artifacts provide few details, making it difficult for 
non-expert visitors to
learn about an artifact, and to find its relevance to other artifacts or to 
themselves. Although
museums have developed interpretive aids such as brochures and audio guides, 
these are
limited and do not offer visitors the possibility to explore artifacts both 
broadly and deeply
as they go through an exhibition. Visitors often have questions that go 
unanswered or
pass through an exhibition without being engaged. As visitors all have their 
own personal
interests and preferences, it would be difficult to offer a usable version of 
any current inter-
pretive aid that includes all of the information, stories, and related content 
that each visitor
would like. Personal mobile devices provide a platform for interactivity and 
access to an
unlimited amount of information, presentation of rich media, and flexibility 
for customized
experiences both inside the museum and beyond.

To bridge the gap between museum collection information and visitor engagement, 
I
propose a framework for increasing engagement through resonant, rich, and 
interactive
experiences mediated by a personal mobile guide, and present a case study and 
functional
prototype mobile guide for the Hall of Architecture at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art.


ii Museum Visitor Engagement Through Resonant, Rich and Interactive Experiences

For Todd.


Contents

Acknowledgments                                    vii

1  Introduction                                      1

2  Frameworks for Understanding Visitors                      3

2.1  Falk’s Visitor Model                               3

2.2  Other Visitor Models                               5

3  Mobile Museum Guides                               7

3.1  Benefits of Mobile Guides                            7

3.2  Business Model                                 8

3.3  Native Versus Web Applications                        8

3.4  Current Guides                                  8

3.5  Recommendation Systems                           10

3.6  Object Selection                                 11

3.7  Conclusions                                   11

4  Understanding Visitors and Museum Staff                    13

4.1  Art Museum Professionals                           13

4.2  Visitor Case Study: University Students                    16

4.3  Personas and Visitor Types                           18

5  Findings & Design Criteria                             21

5.1  Key Findings                                  21

5.2  Design Criteria                                 22

6  Initial Concepts                                   23

6.1  Relation to Visitor Models                           26

6.2  Relation to Other Interpretive Aids                       27

6.3  Enhancing the Basic Features of Current Mobile Guides           27

7  Case Study: The Carnegie Museum of Art                    29

7.1  Prototyping                                   31

iii


8  Prototype Mobile Guide System                          37

8.1  Supporting the Visit Cycle: Planning, Exploring, and Reviewing       37

8.2  Resonant, Rich, and Interactive Experiences in the Guide           37

8.3  Supporting Many Types of Visitors                      41

8.4  Testing with Museum Visitors                         42

8.5  Final Guide Design                               45

9  Conclusion                                      51

9.1  Feasibility & Implementation                         51

9.2  Future Work                                   52

Bibliography                                       53

Appendix A                                        55

Current Mobile Guides                                55

Appendix B                                        57

User Research                                     57

Scenarios                                       58

Appendix C                                        61

UI Design                                       61

Appendix D                                        65

Interpretive Aids for the Carnegie Museum of Art                  65


List of Figures

2.1  Falk’s visitor categories                               3

2.2  Dallas Museum of Art’s visitor model                        5

3.1  Perspectives of key stakeholders                           9

4.1  Key stakeholders in visitor experience                       14

4.2  Kiosk at the Carnegie Museum of Art                       15

4.3  Think aloud visit to the Carnegie Museum of Art                 17

6.1  Concept 1: Location                                24

6.2  Concept 2: Related Works                             24

6.3  Concept 3: Contrasting Works                           25

6.4  Concept 4: Musical Background                          25

6.5  Concept 5: Match Game                              26

6.6  Concept 6: Track Your Visit                            26

6.7  Mobile guide integration                              27

7.1  View of the Hall of Architecture                          30

7.2  Small works hung in the Hall of Architecture                   30

7.3  Location wireframe                                 32

7.4  Related Works wireframe                              32

7.5  Match Game wireframe                               33

7.6  Geography wireframe                                33

7.7  Architectural Styles wireframe                           34

7.8  Track Your Visit wireframe                            34

8.1  Types of exploration supported by the guide                    38

8.2  Guide system overview                               39

8.3  Information architecture                              40

8.4  Match Game flow                                  41

8.5  User testing                                     42

8.6  Final UI screenshots                                46

8.7  Additional final UI screenshots                           47

8.8  Sample scenario part one                              48

v


8.9  Sample scenario part two                              49

1   Overview of primary grids                             62

2   Color palette                                     62

3   Alternate navigation style                              63

4   Object label                                     65

5   Gallery sign                                     66


Acknowledgments

I would like to thank my advisor, Professor Mark Baskinger, for his 
contributions and
support; The Society for Contemporary Craft and The Mattress Factory museum; 
the staff
of the Carnegie Museum of Art (Marilyn Russell, Lucy Stewart, Tracy Myers, and 
Krystina
Mierins); and my family, colleagues, and research participants. I would also 
like to thank
my husband Todd for his tireless support.

vii



1 Introduction

Learning is not restricted to classrooms or school curricula; people learn new 
things every
day when they read books, look things up online, go on hikes, or try to fix 
their cars. People
may also seek out places like museums, nature centers, gardens, or zoos in 
order to be
exposed to new ideas and to have new experiences. These places are dedicated to 
engaging
and educating visitors; unfortunately, there are few people who truly use these 
institutions
to the greatest potential. Many people visit an institution only once, or very 
infrequently,
and those visits could be more engaging and informative. Visitors are missing 
out on the
true breadth and depth of information, and the rich experiences, that these 
places can offer.
This is not merely a missed opportunity; many institutions realize that in 
order to pros-
per, they must change. They can no longer satisfy themselves with merely 
preserving and
displaying important collections, confident that the public will continue to 
find value in
repeat visits [4]. There are some in the museum community who have called for a 
new ded-
ication to excellence, asserting that museums too often focus on merely 
surviving, when
they should be innovative and work to exceed the expectations of visitors [25]. 
Striving for
excellence is a requirement for museums if they are to compete for the public’s 
attention
in  the face of content and activities like the increasingly-impressive and 
accessible content

online and on television.

The difficulty in engaging visitors is that, although museums are extensive 
resources,
much of their information is inaccessible to visitors. Typical labels for 
artifacts provide few
details, making it difficult for non-expert visitors to learn about an 
artifact, or to find its
relevance to other artifacts or to themselves. Visitors have questions that go 
unanswered
or they pass through an exhibition without being engaged. Visitors can fully 
engage with
museum content through resonant, rich, and interactive experiences.

• Resonance occurs when someone senses a connection between himself and an 
object
or event—it brings up memories of events, thoughts or feelings or ties to 
personal
interests. While visitors can choose exhibitions that they relate to, many 
possible
connections are not readily visible to visitors. An interpretive system can 
present
more options for visitors, like different ways to view collections, themed tour 
options,
or recommendations based on works that the visitor has already seen, resulting 
in
many more opportunities for visitors to find connections to artifacts.

• Rich information goes beyond a listing of facts to provide further details or 
related
information that can help visitors to find resonance, and to become more 
engaged.
Some examples of rich information that an interpretive system can provide to 
users
include videos of artifact restoration, interviews with curators, period music 
clips,
and reconfigurable maps of connections between artifacts. Having a variety of 
infor-
mation, and ways to interact with that information, introduces a sense of 
freedom and
potential that will spark the curiosity of visitors and lead them to consider 
not only

1


whether they like or dislike an artifact, but also its connections to other 
artifacts or
knowledge domains and, particularly, how it relates to themselves.

• Interactive information enables visitors to make choices and to explore 
exhibitions
and related content on their own, as far as they would like to go. Providing 
visi-
tors more control in how they choose to learn about the exhibitions and 
individual
works may help them to discover their own connections to the exhibitions. 
Interac-
tive information frameworks may provide flexibility, customization, and 
incidental
exploration. These behaviors are important in transforming passive museum 
visitors
into active information seekers and engaged visitors.

Museums offer many interpretive aids to engage and inform visitors, such as 
wall la-
bels, docent tours, audio guides, and brochures, but these aids are inherently 
limited. A
brochure may be very well designed, but it will always be static. Traditional 
audio guides
may contain interesting stories, but content is presented serially and users 
cannot request
more information. Docent tours have a personal touch and visitors can have 
their questions
answered on the spot, but they are restrictive (because visitors will only view 
and get infor-
mation about a predetermined set of artifacts) and limited (because they rely 
on volunteer
resources).

Museums are in need of a new way to share their content. Some institutions like 
chil-
dren’s museums or science centers have many physical exhibits and signs that 
provide in-
formation and allow visitors to experiment in order to understand new concepts. 
Physical
and especially interactive, exhibits involving multiple senses are generally 
accepted as very
engaging, educational, and memorable. However, those institutions whose focus 
has tradi-
tionally been on presenting and preserving objects (such as specimens or 
artworks), rather
than on directly educating visitors, face a challenge because such exhibits and 
activities
may not fit within their culture or exhibition space.

Mobile guides (offered on smartphones, PDAs, or other small electronic devices) 
are
a natural means of creating resonant, rich, and interactive experiences, and 
require only
minimal changes to the exhibition space. Unlike other interpretive aids, mobile 
guides can
access an unlimited amount of information via the Internet and can contain many 
learning
options that are tailored to individuals or to categories of visitors. Mobile 
guides can tap
into the depth of museum-curated digital content or link across the Internet to 
external
sources. While there are an increasing number of mobile guides, many are still 
limited,
merely offering another means of accessing pre-existing audio guide content, 
and do not
live up to the potential of their advanced technology.

This thesis proposes a system that increases engagement through a resonant, 
rich, and
interactive experience that takes advantage of the new possibilities afforded 
by personal
mobile devices. The system is based on models of visitor goals and attitudes, 
successes
and failures of current mobile guides, interviews with key stakeholders (museum 
staff and
visitors), and user testing, in addition to known design principles. As a case 
study, this
thesis develops a mobile guide that successfully engages visitors at an art 
museum, one of
the most difficult types of museums for visitor engagement, because of the 
required trade-
off between providing interpretive content and maintaining an uncluttered 
atmosphere.


2 Frameworks for Understanding
Visitors

Traditionally, museum professionals have used demographic data to understand 
their vis-
itors. This data typically includes information such as race, age, income, and 
level of
education. While this data is easy for visitors to provide, it has been shown 
through years
of visitor research that it is not predictive of visitor behavior or experience 
[7]. Visitor
models can help museums find new ways to offer resonant experiences—experiences 
that
encourage curiosity and help visitors find meaning in the collections. People 
often create
or discover meaning by finding connections between something they are currently 
experi-
encing and something from their past, with their other interests, or with their 
aspirations.
While museums cannot have a deep understanding of all of their visitors in 
order to create
experiences that best resonate with them, visitor models can be an efficient 
way to improve
upon current strategies, which are often one-size-fits-all, and to evaluate 
proposed solutions
in terms of meeting and exceeding visitors’ expectations.

2.1  Falk’s Visitor Model

Renowned museum researcher John H. Falk describes different types of visitors 
based on
their visit goals, which relate to their sense of personal identity. These 
visitor types in-
clude: Explorers, Facilitators, Experience Seekers, Professionals/Hobbyists, 
and Recharg-
ers. These categories cut across demographics, and a person may go to a museum 
or other
learning institution as an Explorer one day and as a Facilitator the next. A 
visitor may also
embody a combination of categories during a visit.


Experience
Seekers

Want to see the
most renowned
pieces and make
memories.

Explorers

Want to learn
new information
and understand
new concepts.

Facilitators
Want to ensure
that their com-

panions meet

their visit goals.

Hobbyists &
Professionals
Want to see and

study speci!c

pieces or exhibits.

Rechargers
Want to relax
in a peaceful

atmosphere.

Figure 2.1: Falk’s visitor categories
3


Experience Seekers

Experience Seekers want to see the “most important” exhibitions and to “make 
memories;”
they are often tourists. These visitors may be on a tight schedule, so they 
want high-level in-
formation about the museum collection rather than long stories and details. 
They may also
be especially interested in maps or navigational help as it is likely their 
first visit to a par-
ticular institution. Experience Seekers may also be locals attracted by a new 
“blockbuster”
exhibition—perhaps a traveling exhibition that has been to many renowned 
museums.

Explorers

Explorers are curious and seek to learn new information, and understand new 
concepts, dur-
ing their visit. In order to satisfy their curiosity, Explorers read wall 
labels and brochures,
and may attend museum lectures or search for books specializing in topics that 
they find
particularly interesting during their visit. They may come alone, or separate 
from their
group. They are often repeat visitors and want to explore on their own, without 
following
prescriptive tours or audio guides. Falk suggests that Explorers might use a 
guide if it were
flexible and allowed them freedom of choice [7]. In terms of their identity 
needs, Explorers
are seeking to confirm themselves as curious people who value education. They 
want to
feel intrigued and challenged.

Facilitators

Facilitators go to learning institutions with others such as friends, 
relatives, or children.
Their primary goal is to ensure that the other people in their group have a 
good time and
accomplish their own goals at the museum. Parents are often Facilitators and 
seek to con-
firm themselves as good parents who help their children learn. Other 
Facilitators seek to
confirm themselves as good friends or family members. If visit companions are 
not par-
ticularly interested in the exhibitions, the museum may simply serve as a 
“backdrop” for
socializing and building relationships.

Rechargers

Rechargers want to relax in a peaceful atmosphere and are not especially 
interested in the
exhibitions themselves and are unlikely to use interpretive aids.

Professionals/Hobbyists

Professionals or Hobbyists often come to the museum with a specific interest or 
to see a par-
ticular exhibition. They think of themselves as the “real visitors,” unlike the 
mere “tourists”
and want to confirm themselves as sophisticated [7]. They are unlikely to read 
wall labels
or use other interpretive aids as they are already very knowledgeable. They 
may, however,
attend lectures or workshops, and enjoy talking to experts and learning 
behind-the-scenes
information about the museum.

Falk, in collaboration with Lynn Dierking, also developed the Contextual Model 
of
Learning [8], which shows how visitor experience is affected by factors other 
than iden-
tity, such as personal context (prior knowledge, experiences, and interests), 
socio-cultural


Cheryl A. Templeton                 5

Dallas Museum of Art Visitor Model


Uncomfortable

Comfortable

Very Comfortable


Tentative
Observers

Little experience
with art.

Curious
Participants

Enjoy art and
museums.

Committed
Enthusiasts

Knowledgeable
and connected
to art. Enjoy
learning from
experts.

Discerning
Independents

Knowledgeable
and connected
to art. Enjoy
developing
their own views
on art.

Figure 2.2: The Dallas Museum of Art’s visitor types and their comfort with 
art.

context (current companions, others at the venue, and cultural background) and 
physical
context (advance organizers, architecture and exhibit design).

2.2  Other Visitor Models

In addition to Falk’s foundational work, there are more-recent studies 
completed over the
last ten years that propose other models of visitor types, centering on the 
idea that personal
information—like previous experience, goals and identity—are more meaningful 
than de-
mographic data in terms of predicting visitor behavior and desires. These 
models offer
other perspectives on visitors that can help to shape interpretive aids.

The Dallas Museum of Art’s Visitor Model

Researchers at the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA), in conjunction with research 
consul-
tancy Randi Korn and Associates, developed a visitor model based on the level 
of comfort
or “personal connection” that different visitors have with art. They identify 
four types of
visitors: Tentative Observers, Curious Participants, Discerning Independents, 
and Commit-
ted Enthusiasts [11]. While Committed Enthusiasts and Discerning Independents 
are both
knowledgeable, confident and emotionally connected to art, the Committed 
Enthusiasts are
those visitors who are interested in hearing explanations of artwork while 
Discerning Inde-
pendents are more interested in developing their own views.

Randi Korn and Associates used the same approach to visitor categorization at 
the
Sports Legends Museum at Camden Yards [15]. While the categories that they 
found there
(Middle-Road Fans, TV Enthusiasts, Active Enthusiasts, and Indifferent 
Companions) are
different from those found at the DMA, this example illustrates that analyzing 
visitors from
a non-demographic view can be applied to different types of museums.

As an example of how a visitor model can be put to use, in 2005 the Dallas 
Museum
of Art created a new system for developing visitor programs based on their 
research. The
DMA calls this new system The Arts Network and has used visitor categories to 
develop


“channels” that organize and target their offerings in the same way that many 
television
channels are targeted (e.g. HGTV focuses on home and garden interests and ESPN 
focuses
on sports interests). More information about their visitor studies and the 
implementation
of their framework can be found in their publications Dallas Museum of Art 
Presents The
Arts Network [11] and Ignite the Power of Art: Advancing Visitor Engagement in 
Museums
[23].

By analyzing visitors, museums can generally find a small number of categories 
into
which visitors fit for the purposes of designing exhibits or communications to 
appeal to a
range of visitors. These categories can cover such distinctions as 
identity-related goals (as
does that Falk model), attitude toward the subject matter (as does the DMA 
model) or other
distinctions that are of interest to a particular museum.


3 Mobile Museum Guides

Museum audio guides, the precursors to mobile guides, originated in the 1950s 
as the stan-
dard method for delivering content beyond wall labels. They began as personal 
receivers
for short-wave radio broadcasts—visitors could “tune-in” and listen to a 
recorded audio
program that was already in progress. Visitors did not have any choice over 
what to listen
to  or when to listen to it [29].

In the early 1990s random access capability was introduced and visitors could 
ac-
cess audio clips by keying in numeric codes placed by artworks [10]. Visitors 
had more
control—they could choose to only listen to information about works in which 
they were
interested. Today, most museums with audio guides use systems that have changed 
little
since the introduction of random access. Visitors typically go to a designated 
area after pur-
chasing museum admission and then pay to rent an audio guide player. They can 
usually
select a language option and then use the guide as described above.

3.1  Benefits of Mobile Guides

Mobile guides offer new capabilities and conveniences to address the 
limitations of audio
guides. They can be accessed on visitors’ own devices and can provide a richer 
experi-
ence: more information, more personalized information, and multimedia 
information (text,
pictures, videos). Current mobile guides capitalize on these capabilities to 
varying degrees.

• Unlimited Content Although it is important to consider connection speeds, 
mobile
guides that have access to the Internet can provide an unlimited amount of 
informa-
tion to visitors and can provide multimedia content in a number of formats. This
allows museums to present visitors with many options for engaging with their 
col-
lections, and allows visitors to explore beyond basic facts about works in as 
much
breadth or depth as they choose.

• Exploration Options Digital, interactive guides can also offer a choice 
between guided
tours or on-demand information (See Figure 8.1). While audio guides have evolved
into on-demand systems, some visitors may still prefer the more structured 
approach
of an organized tour. Mobile guides can offer both, including many distinct 
tours and
the ability to switch between on-demand viewing and following a tour.

• Purchase/Decision Timing Guides developed for visitors’ own devices (with 
Internet
access) can provide a new flexibility for visitors. Currently, visitors have to 
decide at
the beginning of their visit to get an audio guide, before they have seen the 
exhibi-
tions. They may not think that they will want a guide, or they might not 
realize that
the museum has a guide if it is not brought to their attention. By developing 
guides

7


for these new devices, and specifically for the devices that a visitor may own 
and
carry with them, visitors can decide to opt-in to the guide at any time. If a 
visitor has
a smartphone, as he reads a label or looks at a sign in a gallery, he can learn 
about the
guide and quickly install it or access it through a Web browser.

• Reading and Listening Options A reading- or text-based option allows for easy 
brows-
ing (can quickly see what information in included) and makes users appear more
approachable than if they were wearing headphones (good for group visits).

3.2  Business Model

Audio or mobile guides are not relied upon for revenue, which largely comes 
from donors
and ticket sales (if admission is not free). Guide systems are implemented as 
part of a
strategy for increasing visitor engagement, contributing to the education of 
the public and
increasing a museum’s popularity and reputation. However, if a museum is 
popular and the
community recognizes it as a valuable resource (perhaps partially due to a 
guide), that will
help  the museum to secure funding.

3.3  Native Versus Web Applications

Current guides for mobile devices are either native applications (made to be 
installed on
a specific type of device) or Web applications (viewed through a Web browser). 
Many
of the current smartphone guides are native iPhone applications—made for 
Apple’s iOS
which, unfortunately, leaves out the majority of smartphone users. In order to 
reach other
users, additional applications would have to be developed specifically for 
other smartphone
operating systems. While Web applications cannot make use of some operating 
system-
specific features, such as integrating directly with the camera, they provide 
access to anyone
with an Internet-enabled device and avoid the cost and time associated with 
developing
multiple versions of an application for different devices.

3.4  Current Guides

Because of the new possibilities afforded by offering guides on consumer 
devices, muse-
ums and guide design firms are both interested and currently engaged in 
exploring these
platforms. Many large or forward-thinking museums are using mobile guides, and 
many
smaller, less-well-funded or more-conservative museums may follow in the future 
as the
guides are further explored and tested. Computer science researchers are also 
interested in
visitor experience and mobile guides because of the large data sets of works 
and related
information, and the challenge of exploring that information at the museum.

Current guides are created either by design firms or in-house at museums. In 
the past,
museums often relied heavily on design firms to create and manage their audio 
guides, but
museums are increasingly handling their guides in-house [5]. Museums that do 
use design
firms generally have more control over content than they did in the past and 
may rely on
the design firm primarily for the user interface (UI) design and programming.


What is the Future of Mobile Museum Guides?


Guide Design Companies

There will be opportunities for
custom UIs as well as
frameworks that many
institutions can use.

Shift focus from custom hardware
to developing for common devices
that visitors may bring to the
museum.

Museum Sta

Create a database of the museum
collection.

Develop guide content in-house.

Guides must be fun, educational,
and adaptable to many dierent
visitor interests.

Minimize costs while making
content available to as many
people as possible.

Researchers

Recommendation algorithms,
computer vision, and sensors
have the possibility to enhance
guides.

Guides should be context aware
and €t seemlessly into the visit
experience.

Figure 3.1: Different perspectives on future museum guides.

UI Frameworks

Some design firms have created flexible, generic UIs that can be used for many 
different
institutions. Two such systems are Antenna Audio’s Pentimento system [2] and 
Acous-
tiguide’s Smartour [1]. Museums can use these frameworks to organize and 
display their
content. The frameworks generally support multiple ways for visitors to access 
content:

• Themes

• Browsable images of works by gallery

• Numeric keypad

• Interactive map

• Text search

• Tours

Smartour also includes features such as a registration form through which 
visitors can
sign up for museum notifications, and social networking options so that 
visitors can tell
others about their visit.

These frameworks can save time when creating a guide. However, although the 
standard
features may capture most of what museums currently expect, they do not 
approach the full
potential of a mobile guide.

Custom Guides

Most guides are custom-made for a museum or a specific exhibition. Many share 
common
features such as basic logistical information (like hours and tickets prices), 
tours, and audio
or video commentary. Some guides also include an interactive map, showing 
locations of
artworks on a chosen tour.


Innovative features:

• Including non-museum content such as relevant YouTube videos

• Posting visitor comments

• Allowing visitors easy access to guide material outside of the museum

• Encouraging visitors to participate in curation

Examples of museums with custom guides:

• The Brooklyn Museum

• The Cooper-Hewitt

• The Louvre

• The Mattress Factory

• SFMOMA

There are many guide examples (see Appendix A) and some have incorporated 
features
that have been recognized by museum professionals as engaging for visitors (see 
Section
4.1), but there is significant room for innovation and refinement of features 
and user in-
terface, and some areas of interest to museum professionals and visitors (such 
as games,
recommendations, and easy direct access to specific works) have not been fully 
or satis-
factorily explored in current systems. These areas will be explored in the 
system that this
thesis proposes.

3.5  Recommendation Systems

Museum professionals and computer science researchers are looking to see how 
museum
guides can go beyond the current state and reach new levels of engagement and 
ease-of-
use. A major interest is in recommendation systems; there are many options 
covering a
range of implementations and values for engagement. A fast and simple way to 
provide
personalization is through a fixed list of profiles (e.g. “Explorer” or 
“Student”) from which
visitors  can choose at the beginning of their visit. Researchers Tan and 
Oinonen conducted a
study to learn about visitors’ profiling preferences [30] and found that 
participants prefer to
have some direct control over their experience and are not satisfied with 
choosing a profile.
Alternatively, visitors can be profiled based on which items they view with a 
guide or which
they  rate highly, using an automated system based on machine learning (like 
Pandora or
Netflix). However, it is not clear how that can support first-time or 
infrequent visitors as
the system would not have sufficient time or data to make educated 
recommendations. A
simpler option that gives control to users is offering a list of themes or 
related works from
which visitors can choose.


3.6  Object Selection

Several research groups have developed and tested mobile museum guides, often 
with a
focus on how new technologies can enhance visitor experience. An overarching 
trend is
context awareness, with a focus on object recognition.

Currently, users of mobile guides usually enter numerical codes provided on 
wall labels
into a guide system in order to access information. This method is reliable, 
but text entry
can be tedious or difficult. Aside from addressing usability concerns, new 
object selection
methods could also be playful.

One new approach to object selection uses sensors and user gestures. In Towards 
In-
teractive Museum: Mapping Cultural Contexts to Historical Objects, Park et al. 
present a
wearable system through which users can point to an object to select it using a 
“ring-type
3D pointing device” equipped with a sensor and an accelerometer [14]. After 
selecting an
object, users can make a defined gesture to see information about that object 
on a viewing
device that is worn on the wrist. This work illustrates an innovative type of 
interaction, but
unfortunately, it may not be feasible in the near future (The majority of the 
paper discusses
the difficulties of object-selection.).

Another approach to object selection uses computer vision. Bay et al. created a 
system
that includes a tablet PC with an attached webcam [3]. Users can take a photo 
of an object,
and the system will try to determine which object it is and then display 
corresponding
information. The system also makes use of location information obtained through 
a wireless
networking system installed in the space. While the authors state that the 
system is “robust,”
it  does require a database of museum holdings with several images for each 
object that vary
in angle, as well as a location-sensing system. Due to those constraints, such 
a system
seems difficult to maintain as exhibitions rotate in and out of museums and 
also potentially
expensive and difficult to install.

Although these alternative means of object recognition may not be ready for 
commer-
cial use, they illustrate possibilities to consider for the future. Meanwhile, 
some museums
have used RFID or QR codes to aid in object selection, which are robust, 
economical, and
easy to implement (see Section 4.1 and Appendix A).

3.7  Conclusions

Mobile guides have evolved from simple audio tracks with few options to 
multimedia touch-
screen devices with large data stores and customization options. Many 
professionals in the
museum community are excited about the possibilities provided by these new 
guides and
are actively exploring them. However, many guides are still fairly limited, 
merely offer-
ing another means of accessing pre-existing audio guide content and not living 
up to their
potential. The system developed in this thesis will address these deficiencies 
and take full
advantage of the platform to meet and exceed visitor expectations.



4 Understanding Visitors and
Museum Staff

A museum visitor’s experience is influenced by everyone from exhibit designers 
to city
government, but the primary stakeholders to consider when creating interpretive 
systems
are the museum staff and the visitors themselves (See Figure 4.1). The term 
“museum
staff” is intentionally broad as there are numerous roles that vary widely 
depending on the
size, subject matter, and collection of a particular museum. Among the staff, 
two groups
emerge as primary leaders and decision-makers: curators and educators. Curators 
generally
research artifacts, choose exhibition content and write interpretive text. 
Educators take
information about an exhibition and determine how best to present it to 
visitors in order to
maximize their engagement and learning. Educators also organize activities and 
events for
visitors that are aimed at enriching their understanding of the collections, 
such as lectures
or classes. A successful mobile guide (or any other interpretive system) will 
help museum
staff and visitors to achieve their goals. In order to understand their general 
goals it is
important to develop an understanding of any specific museum and visitor base 
involved in
a particular project. There is great variety among museums and visitor bases, 
so it is not
safe to assume that general information or models cover all of the necessary 
considerations.

4.1  Art Museum Professionals

Museum professionals interviewed for this thesis were all enthusiastic about 
improving vis-
itor experience but came from institutions with varying types of artwork, 
available content
and desired visitor experience. All were interested in providing content to 
visitors in addi-
tion to what can be included on wall labels, in brochures or in audio guides; 
suggestions
included artist interviews, videos explaining the art-making process, 
historical context, and
recommendations about which works to view. Some were concerned that visitors 
had ques-
tions,    but did not ask staff for information; possible explanations include 
that visitors are
intimidated, worry about bothering staff, think that the staff is not 
knowledgeable enough,
or  worry about revealing their own lack of knowledge or understanding.

Varying Exhibition Goals

Overall, the museum staff were enthusiastic about giving options to visitors 
and letting them
explore, although some were concerned about visitors “wandering” in exhibitions 
and not
reaching the learning goals that staff had defined. Museum staff goals vary by 
exhibition as
well as by institution—in some cases the goal is for visitors to make their own 
meaning and
in others there are specific concepts or information that staff would like 
visitors to learn.

13



PR

Sta!

Publications

Sta!

Website
Creators

Non-Museum
Stakeholders


Directors

Curators

City Gov’t

Inuence on Experience

Visitor


Exhibit
Designers

Companions

Other Visitors


Museum
Stakeholders

Educators

Conservators

Audio/Guide
Companies

Donors

Figure 4.1: Key stakeholders in visitor experience.

Supportive or Distracting?

Despite museum staff enthusiasm for the possibilities of mobile guides, some 
did raise the
question of whether a guide would distract from the artwork and become its own 
activ-
ity. One person gave the example of the Cooper-Hewitt’s guide [12], which 
showed long
videos that detracted from the exhibit. Koven J. Smith, of the Metropolitan 
Museum of
Art, said that he felt frustrated with the long videos and would rather watch 
excerpts with
the option to watch the videos at a later time [27]. A reviewer for the New 
York Times felt
that the Cooper-Hewitt’s guide worked very well in its context, but admitted 
that such a
guide “could be a fatal distraction from the art on view [28].” While any 
interpretive aid
could potentially distract from artwork, the advanced functionality and 
multimedia possi-
bilities of the latest mobile guides make them particularly prone to this 
problem. However,
well-structured content of an appropriate length can support visitors and avoid 
becoming a
distraction. Additionally, mobile guides allow visitors to save or bookmark 
content for later
viewing (if they are using their own device) and if they are using the museum’s 
device then
the museum can email content links to visitors or provide an easy way to find 
the content
on their websites.

Guide Platforms

In addition to traditional audio guides, the interviewed museum staff have 
tried lending
MP3 players, guide by cellular phone (providing numbers by artworks that 
visitors can call
for more information), and traditional audio guides. All systems were limited 
to audio,
the MP3 players quickly broke and the guide by cellular phone came with an 
expensive
contract for the museum. The Mattress Factory (an installation-art museum) 
currently uses
an inexpensive system for smartphone users. They have QR codes by their 
artworks that


Figure 4.2: Kiosk at the Carnegie Museum of Art

visitors can scan in order to view additional content such as online videos of 
the art instal-
lation process or artist interviews. So far they have found that the visitors 
who have tried
the system have liked it and enjoyed the additional content.

Supporting Socializing

Beyond mobile guides, these institutions improve visitor experience through 
art-making
courses, reading groups, lectures, scavenger hunts and cocktail parties. They 
are also active
on social networking systems such as Facebook and Twitter, and they maintain 
blogs. While
these programs usually occur, or are accessed, outside of a typical visit, they 
contain aspects
that can inform a successful mobile guide. Many of these programs share a 
social aspect
in that they are either group activities or they promote dialog between 
visitors, or between
visitors and museum staff. This social aspect is something in which many 
museums are
interested [5]. A docent at the Carnegie Museum of Art (CMoA) illustrated the 
museum’s
focus on dialog when she said of the docent tour program, “We have discussion, 
rather than
a touring philosophy [20].” A mobile guide can include features that support 
this focus on
social connections and discussion through social media integration, and through 
intriguing
content that sparks in-person conversations.

Supporting Curiosity

Art museums in particular have a reputation as being imposing and elitist and, 
as well-
known visitor experience strategist Nina Simon says, they do not have the same 
“vibe” as
science museums, where visitors are encouraged to feel like anyone can be a 
scientist [26].


In many art museums the focus is on great artworks and artists rather than on 
experimenta-
tion and the art-making process. There may be ways to incorporate more 
information about
process in a mobile guide, as has been done with some museum kiosks. At the 
CMoA they
do have a few kiosks demonstrating process, and some include physical examples 
of work
that visitors can touch. In addition, they also had a live weaving 
demonstration during a
2009 exhibition on tapestries [19]. While process information and video 
demonstrations
on screen are still limited in interactivity and may not engage or excite 
visitors at the same
level as a full, physical exhibit, it may be an efficient way to satisfy the 
curiosity of many
visitors and perhaps inspire them to learn more about, and experiment with, the 
process on
their own or attend museum art-making activities.

Key Findings from Museum Profesionals

• The system should be relatively cheap, robust, and easy to pilot-test.

• Context is key. Although there is a lot of information that museums want to 
share, that
information has to be shared strategically to support a positive learning 
experience.

• Museums want to engage visitors in a dialog.

• Every exhibition is different, so a guide must be flexbile.

• Visitors should have options and be encouraged to explore.

4.2  Visitor Case Study: University Students

This project will focus on improving the visit experience of university 
students. Although
most museums are moving away from focusing on demographics (see Chapter 2), uni-
versity students are especially interesting because many of the universities in 
Pittsburgh
(Carnegie Mellon University, Chatham University, and the University of 
Pittsburgh) provide
free admission to the Carnegie Museum of Art (the subject of this thesis’ case 
study), and
many university students have flexible schedules and live near the museum. At 
Carnegie
Mellon University, which is the closest university to the museum, approximately 
75% of
undergraduates live on campus [31]. These conditions show that local university 
students
do   have access to the museum and any lack of visitorship can more readily be 
attributed
to disinterest rather than the scheduling, traveling, and financial concerns 
that many people
from the general population cite as reasons why they have not visited or do not 
often visit a
museum. If the visit experience for university students can be improved, then 
there should
be  an increase in interest and visitorship among them.

Traditional Audio Guides

Several students mentioned problems that they had with audio guides. They said 
things
like “I don’t want to spend that much time at every painting,” and the last 
audio guide that I
used, “was almost too much...It was kind of dull and rambling.” Some also said 
that they do
not like audio guides because they are too restrictive. Overall it seems that 
guides that offer
more freedom of choice, and the power to preview or get an overview of the 
information
they contain, would improve visitor satisfaction.


Figure 4.3: Participants during a think aloud visit to the Carnegie Museum of 
Art.

Desired Information

During think aloud visits to the Carnegie Museum of Art (See Figure 4.3 and 
Appendix B),
students asked a variety of questions about the artworks, such as how, when, 
and why they
were made, as well as questions about the artists and the historical context 
for older works.
It is clear that visitors have varying interests and that it would be difficult 
to answer all of
their questions. Traditional audio guides try to anticipate the most common 
questions and
relate the most interesting stories, but a well-organized screen-based guide 
enables visitors
to decide which information they find the most compelling and to easily make 
selections
that are not available on audio-only guides.

Deciding Which Works to See

Some students mentioned that they had a hard time deciding which works to see 
or where to
go next. While it seems that some guides can be overly prescriptive, there is 
an opportunity
to provide recommendations that the user can use or ignore as he chooses. As 
mentioned
previously (See section 3.5), there are many ways to provide recommendations. 
Overly-
abstract and simple profiling, such as having users choose from three 
categories of visitors
may not lead to good recommendations and may suggest that the museum does not 
under-
stand their visitors as individuals. Systems relying on machine learning can 
take too long
to learn enough about visitors’ interests based on how they use the system and 
may end up
frustrating users. Themed tours, from which users can select based on their 
interests, may
be a good solution and has been used in guides such as the Louvre’s Mon Guide 
[6] and in
print format by the Art Institute of Chicago [21].


Key Findings from Student Visitors

• Have many and varied unanswered questions about the exhibitions.

• Think that audio guides are restrictive and lack structure.

• Think that museums can do more to support subject-matter novices.

• Feel they do not have time to visit museums.

• Tend to visit in groups.

4.3  Personas and Visitor Types

These personas reflect characteristics found in both Falk’s and the Dallas 
Museum of Art’s
visitor types, and are used to illustrate how visitors with differing 
backgrounds and goals
might use a new mobile guide system. For full scenarios of use, see Appendix B.

Rick Reynolds - Tentative Observer, Facilitator

Rick is a graduate student from West Virginia in the third year of an Economics 
Ph.D.
program. He has been to a few museums while on vacation, but felt ambivalent 
about them.
Rick decides to take his girlfriend Anna to an art museum because she has only 
ever
been to the small art museum in her hometown and is enthusiastic about seeing a 
more im-
pressive collection. Since he has had more experience, Rick feels responsible 
for showing

her around and making sure that she has a good time.

Nicole Davis - Curious Participant, Experience Seeker

Nicole is a freshman from Atlanta who lives on campus. She is majoring in 
professional
writing, and is ambitious but naturally easy-going. She spends her free time 
hanging out
with friends and reading novels, but she also loves to travel and has a long 
list of countries
to visit. Even though Pittsburgh is not a large city, she is still excited to 
see all of the sights.
It is Friday and Nicole has just turned in a difficult project. She is ready to 
take a break
from school and wants to make some headway on her list of places to go in 
Pittsburgh, so

she heads to the art museum.

Cassie Reed - Curious Participant, Explorer

Cassie is a sophomore from Erie, PA who lives in the CMU dorms and is majoring 
in
biochemistry; she is hard-working and focused on her studies. Although she has 
not had
any time for take electives outside of her major or join student clubs, she 
would like to be
more well-rounded and feel like she is not only a “science person.”

During mid-semester break when everyone has the day off from classes, Cassie 
and her
friend Katherine decide to go to the art museum because they have never been 
there and it
is just a short walk from campus.


Megan Lewis - Committed Enthusiast, Explorer

Megan is a junior from San Francisco who lives in the CMU dorms. Majoring in 
anthro-
pology, she loves learning about other cultures and studying their traditional 
artwork.

Megan visited the art museum during her freshman year, but has not returned 
since then
because she never has free time. When her friend Amanda comes to visit during 
her spring
break, Megan says that she will show her around Pittsburgh. They decide to 
check out some
of the local museums and start at the art museum.

Martin Gray - Discerning Independent, Aspiring Professional

Martin is a senior from Pittsburgh studying art history. He enjoys the growing 
local arts
scene, but plans to move to New York to earn his Ph.D. in art history at 
Columbia. Some
day he would like to be either a professor or a curator; he is not sure which.

Martin is taking a class on the history of American furniture design and has to 
choose a
topic for his final research paper. He heads over to the Carnegie Museum of Art 
to see their
furniture collection—maybe he will be inspired and come up with a topic.



5 Findings & Design Criteria

5.1  Key Findings

These key findings are distilled from the literature review, and from 
interviews with mu-
seum staff and university students.

Literature Review

• Museums are competing with many other education and entertainment options.

• Museums are building databases of their works and related information.

• Museums do not have the space for physical, interactive displays, or feel 
that such
displays would be too distracting from the exhibitions.

• Museum staff are interested in experimenting with mobile guides.

• There are different types of visitors and different visit goals.

• Visitors tend to view work with which they are comfortable.

Museum Staff

• Are often on a budget and short-handed.

• Want to ensure that interpretive information enhances learning and does not 
distract
from the exhibitions.

• Want to give options to visitors and encourage them to explore.

• Use different interpretive strategies depending on the exhibition 
content—each exhi-
bition has a unique story to tell.

Visitors

• Think that museums can do more to support subject-matter novices.

• Feel they do not have time to visit museums.

• Think that traditional audio guides can be verbose and limiting.

• Have questions about artworks that are not answered by currently available 
informa-
tion.

• Tend to visit in groups.

21


5.2  Design Criteria

Learning

• Must provide more pathways to learning through connections with visitors’ 
interests.

• Should support subject-matter novices.

• Should provide more information than is currently accessible to visitors.

Experience

• Must support goals of different visitor types.

• Should support and spark conversations.

• Should extend the visit experience outside of the museum.

• Should enable visitors to share their experiences and promote the museum to 
friends.

• Could create a long-term connection to the museum.

• Could encourage participation in museum events.

User Interface

• Must be intuitive for first-time users to avoid frustration and distraction 
from the
exhibition.

• Should use familiar UI design patterns.

• Should encourage exploration.

Implementation

• Must use robust technology that is easy to maintain.

• Should be easily pilot-tested so that museums can evaluate the system before 
making
a large investment.


6 Initial Concepts

In order to better understand visitors and what they want and expect from 
museums, this
thesis has reviewed literature on visitor research (see Chapter 2) and 
interviews of visitors
and museum staff (see Chapter 4). Main findings include that there are several 
differ-
ent types of identity-related goals with which visitors come to museums, and 
that visitors
have many unanswered questions about the collections and are interested in more 
relatable,
contextual information. Museum staff want visitors to feel engaged and to 
appreciate the
exhibitions but are constrained by practical concerns (finances and time), and 
want to make
sure that any changes made to the museum enhance the collections rather than 
becoming a
distraction.

The following concepts enable resonant, rich, and interactive experiences to 
drive en-
gagement. For simplicity, basic features that have been well-explored and 
-received in other
guides, such as museum hours, rates, floor plan, events, standard tours of 
collection high-
lights (including length options for visitors short on time), ways to browse 
works in the
current gallery, and curator comments, have been excluded. It is assumed that 
such features
will be added to any guide before deployment. These features lay the foundation 
for the
types of concepts that will be explored here; if a visitor is lost or lacks 
basic information,
then the possibility for engagement is slight. Museums and their interpretive 
aids, such
as guides, need to meet the current expectations of visitors for basic 
information and then
pleasantly surprise them with additional offerings.

23


Location

This concept shows the approximate geographic
location of a work’s subject matter, and photographs
of that location. Related images, such as other local
historical sites or landscape images, may be included.


Figure 6.1: Location

The images will help visitors to make connections be-
tween works and other interests or past experiences
(like books or movies that the visitor has seen), places
that they would like to visit, or places that they have
visited, among other possibilities. If the location influ-
enced the work then it might also help a visitor to imag-
ine what the artist was feeling or thinking. As one visi-
tor recalled during an interview, seeing the countryside
where Van Gogh painted his Starry Night brought that
painting to life and made her feel that she understood
the painting. Providing these images as hooks into vis-
itors’ experiences and interests allows them to find as-
pects of the work that resonate with them and thus al-
low them to become more reflective and engaged.


Figure 6.2: Related Works

Related Works

This feature shows works with interesting connections
to viewed works, in order to help visitors structure
their visit in a meaningful way by revealing relation-
ships between works and exhibitions. Works may be
related in a number of ways, such as by one work’s
influence on another, time period, medium, artist,
artist ethnicity, or geographic location. Related works
can be presented in list format or shown as highlighted
items on a floorplan of the museum.

Research participants said that they did not know what
to see next or how to best move though an exhibition;
this feature provides structure, but allows more choices
than linear, scripted tours. The Related Works feature
can also show works that are in the museum’s collec-
tions but not currently on view, or even works that are
in other museums; these works would help visitors to
analyze the work that they are currently viewing.



Figure 6.3: Contrasting Works

Contrasting Works

Visitors may be more likely to view types of art that
they already like, rather than challenging themselves
[7].  This feature suggests other works in order to
encourage reflection and exploration.  Visitors can
choose to immediately visit the contrasting work, or
they might continue their current path but view the
suggested work on their phone and perhaps stop at the
work if they happen by it during their visit. Works may
contrast in terms of style, time period or subject mat-
ter. As an example, when viewing a realistic landscape
painting, this feature can recommend an impression-
ist or modern landscape. The contrasting work should
have some connection to the current work so as not
to create a disjointed experience, and so that visitors
can understand the nature and importance of the con-
trast. This feature would work best in a museum whose
collection is large and has a great variety in style and
subject matter.


Figure 6.4: Musical Background

Musical Background

This feature provides period-specific background mu-
sic that changes as a visitor moves through an exhibi-
tion, setting the tone and historical context. Music can
have a strong effect on experience—it is used in places
such as stores, restaurants and movies to influence lis-
teners. A musical background can shape museum visi-
tor experience by quickly giving visitors a sense of the
tone and style of the time period. The music may also
tie into visitors’ memories of concerts, recordings or
movies that they have experienced. This concept may
work best in areas where there is a distinct contrast of
time periods or cultural styles. It is also important to
consider whether the exhibitions involve the work of
living artists, who might object to a juxtaposition of
their work with a piece of music.



This small column
was a calendar and a
table of the wonders
of the world.

Figure 6.5: Match Game

Themes

When creating an exhibition, museum staff must
choose only one way to group and arrange works.
Themed information and games provide a way to
show visitors many others ways of combining and
connecting works, within an exhibition or throughout
the museum.  Alternate views of the collections
increase the liklihood that a visitor will find a view
that resonates with him.

Themes can be introduced through games. Some mu-
seums have created elaborate gaming events [16] and
some have themed tours [6] [21], but the interactive as-
pect of games has yet to be applied to tours. In this con-
cept, visitors are given a visual clue and must search
for a work. Players are actively involved in searching
for artworks and interpreting clues, and will also learn
about the works and see other works that they may not
have otherwise noticed.


Figure 6.6: Track Your Visit

Track Your Visit

This feature allows visitors to save specific works or
to track all of the works that they access in the guide
so that they can follow up them, allowing them to con-
tinue learning after their visit is over.

6.1  Relation to Visitor Models

The guide features support all of Falk’s visitor types. Explorers can satisfy 
their curiosity
by learning in-depth information and Facilitators can entertain or educate 
their companions.
The easy access to intriguing and varied information also encourages Experience 
Seekers
to delve more deeply into the exhibitions, and Hobbyists/Professionals to 
explore and enjoy
works beyond the specific pieces or exhibitions that they came to study. 
Rechargers gener-
ally do not have an interest in interpretive aids, but the guide can provide 
valuable content
that might lead them to transition to another visitor type.


Interpretive Environment

Object Label

Gives name, date, attribution,
origin, and link to mobile
guide content.


Visitor Guide
Shows gallery
location, overview

of the museum, and

information about
the mobile guide.

Mobile Guide

Provides range of contextual
information, media, and links,
as wells a way to save
information about the work
for later reference.

Docent Tour

Explains the structure,
ornamentation and
history of the collection.

Figure 6.7: Interpretive aid system for an artwork

6.2  Relation to Other Interpretive Aids

The guide system will be used within the larger interpretive system of the 
museum and
should integrate with that system so that each component is enhanced by the 
others. The
system components are variable but will often include physical brochures and 
maps, wall
labels, wayfinding signage, and information sheets or binders. These components 
should
include information about how to access the mobile guide and what type of 
content it offers.
The guide proposed in this thesis uses QR codes to access content about 
specific galleries
or artworks, so other interpretive aids should include such codes that visitors 
can scan to
access the guide (see Appendix D).

Mobile guides are not meant to replace the rest of the interpretive system 
because not
all visitors have appropriate devices (and the devices would be expensive for 
the museum
to lend out), mobile guides are not ideal for all interpretive content or 
strategies (such as
complex information displays or long film screenings), and because visitors may 
prefer one
part of the system over another. In addition, these other interpretive aids are 
necessary to
promote, and provide information about, the guide.

6.3  Enhancing the Basic Features of Current Mobile Guides

Some of the basic features common in many current mobile guides can be enhanced 
to re-
flect visitor experience research and the criteria outlined in this thesis. In 
particular, curator
comments can include content such as interviews with other experts, staff or 
visitors, and
images or videos of the art-making or restoration process. Including viewpoints 
other than
those of curators is another idea that is gaining popularity in visitor 
experience discussions;
it combats an elitist and exclusive perception of museums that may discourage 
visitors from


visiting often or becoming involved with museum programs.


7 Case Study: The Carnegie Museum
of Art

The context for this case study is a permanent exhibition at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art
(CMoA) called the Hall of Architecture. This exhibition displays many 
full-sized casts
of architectural and sculptural works, primarily from Western Europe. The 
collection was
created with the goal of educating the people of Pittsburgh and encouraging 
them to study
and understand great works that would be difficult to see in person.

Although a mobile guide can include information about several exhibitions or an 
entire
museum, this case study restricts itself to a single exhibition for reasons of 
practicality,
and also as an illustration of how a museum might pilot-test such a system. It 
can take
considerable time and resources to aggregate content for a guide, so beginning 
with one
exhibition and expanding over time is a pragmatic approach. Museums may also 
feel that
some exhibitions are already very engaging and that there are only certain 
exhibitions in
need of a supplemental guide.

Considerations for the Hall of Architecture

The Hall of Architecture holds many challenges for designers of interpretive 
aids, as well
as some advantages that should be considered when developing guide features.

Challenges of the Collection and Space

• The cast collection is large, with great variety in the size and shape of the 
works.
While the collection is displayed in a large room created specifically for the 
collec-
tion, the large size of some casts (the largest is approximately 40 feet tall 
and 78 feet
wide) makes it difficult to display each piece to its full advantage. Small 
pieces are
generally hung on the perimeter walls, often in many rows reaching to a height 
where
it  is difficult for visitors to appreciate them in any detail. Some of the 
large casts do
not have sufficient space in front of them for visitors to view them in their 
entirety.

• There is a lack of space for interpretive information near each piece. While 
there is
an open space in the middle of the gallery, there is little space between the 
casts to
present information in situ. Pieces are generally placed close together and, in 
some
cases, as with the small pieces on the walls, they share a common label with 
numbers
to identify the specific works.

• There are no clear pathways through the exhibition or distinct sections. 
Visitors
may be uncertain of where to begin viewing the casts, or if there is any 
timeline or
narrative guiding their organization. There is only a small sign by one of the 
three

29


Figure 7.1: View of the Hall of Architecture.

Figure 7.2: Small works hung in the Hall of Architecture.


entrances giving an overview of the collection and indicating why the works were
selected and what visitors might learn.

• The casts are difficult to move. Although the casts could be moved, it would 
be at a
considerable expense of time and money.

Given these spatial challenges, a mobile guide is a good fit—it can provide 
unlimited
information and support visitors without the need for additional space or for 
rearranging the
collection. Successful concepts for guide features should address the Hall of 
Architecture
challenges in addition to the design criteria outlined in Chapter 5.

Advantages of the Collection and the CMoA

• The Carnegie Museum of Art is physically connected to the Carnegie Museum of
Natural History (CMNH). A guide for any part of the CMoA or the CMNH can ref-
erence exhibitions in the other museum, helping to expose visitors from one 
museum
to the other. Visitors interested in natural history but not in art might be 
persuaded—
through guide content—to see an art exhibition (and vice-versa). The content in 
one
museum might also help a visitor to connect with a work in another if there are 
exhi-
bitions with related content, such as the Egyptian column in the Hall of 
Architecture
and the Egyptian mummy in the CMNH.

• The size and shape of works is varied, many works are three-dimensional, and 
there
are multiple pathways. This variety can be intriguing and suggestive of 
exploration,
and could be integral to a mystery game or scavenger hunt.

7.1  Prototyping

This thesis’ working prototype for the Hall of Architecture includes several 
features for
evaluation with potential users. Note that not all of the concepts discussed in 
Chapter 6 for
general museums are included. The Musical Background concept was not included 
as it is
not well-suited to the exhibition due to the early time periods involved. The 
Contrasting
Works feature was not incorporated because the particular exhibition does not 
suggest clear
contrasts to make with other exhibitions or between works within the 
exhibition. The re-
maining concepts work well for the Hall of Architecture, and expansion of those 
concepts,
lead to a prototype that tests well with museum visitors (see Chapter 8).


Guide Features

Concepts included as features in the guide prototype include:

Location

This instantiation of the Location concept includes a
map of the site where the original work (as opposed
to the cast) was created. Some works represented in
the cast collection have been moved from their origi-
nal sites, but many have not, such as the cathedral en-
trances. Also included are photographs of the original
work (which may look dramatically different in color
or texture), interior views if the cast is of a building,
and recent photographs showing how the work is dis-
played or used today. Recent photographs bring these
works into the present day and make them appear more
relevant to visitors. Seeing people in the photos inter-
acting with the works can help to spark stories about
what they are doing or can help a visitor imagine going
to that location. If visitors are motivated to learn more
about an area or to travel to view original works, then
the guide and the exhibition will have fulfilled an im-


Figure 7.3: Location

portant goal of engaging visitors and motivating them
to continue their learning outside of the museum.

Related Works

Related Works for this exhibition shows works in other
media that are from the same time period as the cast
that a visitor is reading about, providing other ways
for visitors to orient themselves in time. A visitor un-
familiar with architecture may have a better sense of
the time period in reference to painting or sculpture.
When available, works on display in the museum are
shown so that visitors can follow up with these other
works. A useful side-effect of this feature is that if the
museum staff wants to increase interest in a particu-
lar exhibition that is being overlooked, this feature can
help drive more visitors to that exhibition.

Figure 7.4: Related Works


Match Game

This instantiation of the Themes concept is a search-
ing game that asks players to look at a detail from a
work and find the work in the gallery. There are clues
provided that offer information about the style, history,
geography, or construction of the work. The works
chosen for the game are part of a theme (geography
and travel) and lead visitors around the different areas
of the exhibition. The searching nature of the game
prompts players to look around the exhibition more
carefully than they might otherwise, highlights the va-
riety of the collection and may also make art novices
feel more comfortable in the museum [4].

Figure 7.5: Match Game


Figure 7.6: Geography

Geography

The Geography feature is another instantiation of the
Themes concept and shows an overview of the coun-
tries from which the casts originate and also includes
interactive maps of the casts’ locations. Architecture
novices might not have significant experience differ-
entiating styles, but most people have experience with
maps and geography. Geography is also important to
this exhibition because part of Andrew Carnegie’s vi-
sion for the collection was to “bring the world” to Pitts-
burgh since most people did not have the means to
travel. Additionally, the geography view quickly illus-
trates to visitors that while the collection is meant to
show great architectural work, it only covers a narrow
piece of the world, excluding whole continents from
which there must certainly be important architectural
works (this may simply be due to practical concerns).
The listing and map of cast origin could spark deep
questions for visitors about ethnocentricity or, more
simply, inspire them to travel or imagine the countries
represented.


Architectural Styles

In this instantiation of the Themes concept, users can
view the exhibition in terms of architectural style. Vis-
itors can view information about a single style or view
the styles in sequence by time period. Without the
guide, a visitor might notice some differences between
styles, but there is no route or structure to guide their
observations. This feature includes a prime example
from each style, question and answer style information
(which prompts visitors to look at and notice details in
the works) and local examples of the style (which will
help them to make connections with past experiences
and encourage them to continue learning outside of the
museum).

Figure 7.7: Architectural Styles


Figure 7.8: Track Your Visit

Track Your Visit

This feature allows users to either save specific works
or save all of the works that they access with the guide.
The works and supporting content can be accessed
through the guide or a desktop webpage on the mu-
seum website. Currently, when a user likes an artwork,
he tries to remember the title to look it up later or takes
a photo of the work. This feature makes it easy for
users follow up with works that they like, and review
what they learned and felt during their visit. By contin-
uing the museum experience at home, users can learn
more in-depth information, developing more personal
connections with the work and also more fully appre-
ciate  the rich service provided by the museum.


Implementation Considerations

• Some of the preceding features require the collection of photographs related 
to the
artworks, such as those of the artwork’s original location. Using professional 
pho-
tographs would increase costs for the museum, but free sources such as Creative
Commons might provide appropriate content. In either case, one should be 
careful to
choose photographs that will intrigue and inspire visitors.



8 Prototype Mobile Guide System

The final mobile guide system for the Carnegie Museum of Art’s Hall of 
Architecture is
based on the preceding literature review (Chapter 2), user research (Chapter 
4), and user
feedback (Chapter 7), as well as feedback from the university community and 
staff at the
Carnegie Museum of Art. This chapter gives a detailed overview of the system, 
how it
supports visitor engagement, and how it integrates with the museum.

8.1  Supporting the Visit Cycle: Planning, Exploring, and
Reviewing

The final system supports planning, exploring and reviewing a visit. Upon 
arriving at a
museum, visitors can learn about the guide from paper museum guides, admissions 
staff,
and signs (see Appendix D). They are directed via QR code to plan their visit 
in the online
guide by browsing galleries and tour options. Later at home, visitors can look 
over and
learn more about artworks that they saved during their visit or browse through 
works that
they missed. The guide information would be available as part of the museum’s 
desktop
website, as well as on the mobile site, so that visitors can use their home 
computers. Beyond
continuing to learn about the museum and perhaps being motivated to return, the 
guide also
encourages lifelong and leisure learning in general.

The exploring phase of the guide is generally, although not exclusively, used 
during a
visit. Visitors can view information about galleries and specific works, take 
tours, share
their favorite works (through social media), or take part in activities such as 
games. It
supports different levels of guidance for visitors (Figure 8.1), enabling them 
to directly
access information about specific works, get suggestions for other works to 
see, or follow a
tour depending on their preferences.

8.2  Resonant, Rich, and Interactive Experiences in the Guide

The goal of the guide is to move visitors from uncomfortable novices or 
comfortable experts
to a middle ground of exploration for maximum engagement and learning through 
resonant,
rich, and interactive experience.

Resonant

Resonance occurs when someone senses a connection between himself and an object 
or
event—it brings up memories of events, thoughts or feelings or ties to personal 
interests.
The guide provides several features aimed at connecting with visitors. Every 
visitor is
unique, but providing several types of content increases the chances of any 
particular guide

37


Exploration Options


Direct Access:

View individual works.

Supported Access:

View related works.

Guided Access:

Take a tour.

Figure 8.1: Visitors can choose their level of guidance by directly accessing 
works, by
seeing recommended works, or by taking a self-guided tour.

user finding content to which they relate. The guide for the Hall of 
Architecture includes
well-organized content on a range of topics, including architectural style, 
Greek mythology,
geography, history and ties to popular culture and travel.

Rich

Rich information goes beyond a listing of facts to provide further details or 
related infor-
mation that can help visitors to find resonance, and to become more engaged. 
The guide
includes links to outside sources such as Wikipedia (which, in turn, links to 
other sources)
in order to provide a depth of information and a variety of related content. 
This relieves
the museum of the impractical task of collecting and curating a vast amount of 
information
and also brings other voices and authorities into the museum space, relating 
the museum to
other sources with which visitors are already familiar. The inclusion of 
popular information
sources such as Wikipedia and Google (Google Maps are used in the guide) tells 
visitors
that their past experiences and knowledge of those sources are relevant and 
useful, which
may encourage visitors to explore further on their own.

Interactive

Interactive information enables visitors to make choices and to explore 
exhibitions and
related content on their own, as far as they would like to go. Guide users can 
choose their
level of guidance (as described above), select which topics to learn more 
about, follow links
to outside sources on the Internet and continue to learn more about a topic, 
save artworks
to review later, or share artworks with friends online. Users can also play a 
game in which
they search for an artwork based on an image of a detail and optional clues. 
The game—as
opposed to a tour or direct access to content—is another way to experience the 
exhibition;
users can choose the experience that they find most engaging.



Museum

Engage with the collection

Home

Continue or begin
self-guided learning


Tours
Galleries
Today’s events
Map

Explorers
Encourage their natural
curiosity and inspire them
to continue with self-guided

learning.

Q & A

Local examples

Links to more
information

Related works
in the museum

Facilitators

Support them leading others
and encourage their curiosity.

Visual explanations
(diagrams and maps)

In-depth information about
favorite works

Information about the visit

Recommendations for the
next visit


Match game

Historical context

Original location

Geography


Experience Seekers
Help them see the highlights
and inspire them to go further.

Familiar tools

Search

Hobbyists/Professionals

Help them locate speci!c works
and inspire them to broaden
their interests.


Goals of each visitor type are supported,
but notices in the museum about the guide
and the content itself are aimed at inspiring
all visitors to be curious and go beyond
simple facts about the artwork and !nd
deeper connections to the collections.

Recharger

Rechargers’ goal is relaxation
rather than interacting with

the museum collection. However,
seeing the guide may intrigue
and motivate them to change
their visit goal.


Plan

Explore

Review

Visitor types source: John Falk, Identity and the Museum Visitor Experience


Figure 8.3: Information architecture


Match Game Flow

Enter incorrect answer

See a clue

Challenge


Enter solution
See solution

Solution

More info

Next Challenge

Figure 8.4: Match Game flow

8.3  Supporting Many Types of Visitors

The guide supports each of Falk’s and the Dallas Museum of Art’s visitor types 
as previ-
ously described, although some may use the guide more than others. In 
particular, Hobby-
ists/Professionals and Rechargers may use the guide less than other visitor 
types, because
they    have fewer felt needs for information. However, a visitor does not have 
to remain one
visitor type during his entire visit. A visitor may enter a museum simply 
wishing to take in
the atmosphere as a Recharger but then be motivated to become an Explorer or 
Experience
Seeker when an exhibition attracts him or he sees signs for a new museum guide 
that offers
intriguing content.

Experience Seekers

Experience Seekers can use the guide to get the high-level information that 
they are inter-
ested in, such as a museum map, the day’s events and tours of the collection 
highlights.

Explorers

Explorers are generally curious and motivated to learn. The guide can help them 
to learn
more deeply about a specific work and continue learning by viewing related 
works. They
may also play the game or take self-guided tours, depending on their particular 
interests
and comfort with the collection that they are viewing.

Facilitators

Facilitators can ensure a good visit for their companions by locating 
intriguing stories and
information relevant to companions, suggesting a tour, by playing a scavenger 
hunt game
or by simply using the guide to answer questions from their companions.


Figure 8.5: A research participant playing the Match Game

Hobbyists/Professionals

Hobbyists/Professionals can use the guide to locate an artist or genre of 
interest and may
also open themselves to exploring the collection and going beyond the 
particular work or
exhibition that they intended to see.

Rechargers

Rechargers’ goal is to relax in a peaceful setting, so unless they move from 
their current
goal to that of another visitor type, they would not have much need for any 
type of guide
or interpretive system. A Recharger may use the guide if their interest is 
piqued by signs or
by seeing others using the guide, prompting them to move toward another visitor 
type such
as Explorer or Experience Seeker.

Level of Comfort with Art

Aside from visit goals, users will also vary with respect to their comfort with 
the subject
matter of a museum or exhibition, which is captured in the Dallas Museum of 
Art’s visitor
model (Figure 2.2). Tentative Observers may benefit the most from the guide 
because of
the dramatic difference between the amount of supportive content on a terse 
wall label and
in an interactive guide with access to the Internet.

8.4  Testing with Museum Visitors

University undergraduate and graduate students ranging in age from 19 to 30 
tested the
guide in the Hall of Architecture at the Carnegie Museum of Art. The guide was 
also
evaluated by museum staff.


Evaluation Criteria

Concepts must support critical design criteria from the literature review and 
stakeholder
research, as well as mediate the challenges of the specific exhibition. They 
should also
balance implementation difficulty and potential visitor engagement.

Positive Feedback

• Participants said that the contextual information answered their questions.

• Participants were pleased to see local examples of artistic styles.

• References to established interactions from their daily lives were 
appreciated, such
as Google maps.

• Novices were supported and even felt that they could use the guide to tell 
others about
the exhibition.

• The guide fit well into social visits—participants said that they would use 
the guide
alone or in a group and that the guide was less isolating than traditional 
audio guides.

• The game provided a pathway and goal for visiting the exhibition and was an 
oppor-
tunity to compete with companions.

• Participants were interested in hearing compelling and relevant stories from 
other
visitors.

Concerns

• A participant found the game too difficult and became frustrated.

• Some game aspects were unnecessary.

• Users may already have too many online accounts and might appreciate a way to
view their saved works later on without having to create an account on the 
museum
website.

Design Implications

• Games and other content should be evaluated by non-experts before releasing 
them to
visitors. Through the process of designing guide content, one gains a deeper 
knowl-
edge of the collections and should be careful to keep novices in mind.

• It is important to acknowledge that visitors generally come to a museum to 
learn.
Guides should make visitors feel proud that they have chosen to have a learning
experience, and should make the content fun and easy to comprehend, while 
avoiding
any condescension.

• Alternatives to a new user account should be explored, such as integrating 
with pop-
ular organizations with which users may already have an account, such as 
Facebook
or Google.


• Contextual information, references to well-known related content, and 
references to
common interactions or tools will help to inform and engage visitors and to make
them feel comfortable using the guide.

• Users may be interested in using the guide to connect with companions and 
well as
other visitors. Ways to elicit and present quality visitor-generated content 
should be
explored.

Response to Testing Results

There were several rounds of testing with modifications to the guide made in 
the interim.

Match Game

Testing showed that the Match Game was too difficult at first, and that the 
clues were too
obscure. In the final design of the game, the first clue reveals what type of 
object to look for
(e.g. column, doorway, bust) and the second clue limits the search area in the 
exhibition.
Later testing sessions with these clues were more successful than earlier 
sessions. The
Hall of Architecture invites exploring due to its large size and variety of 
objects, but those
characteristics also make it a difficult search space. Other game features were 
also changed
based on testing. The game originally showed a user’s score, but testing showed 
that users
play the game in order to learn in a casual way, and that not all of the 
trappings of games are
necessary. Some users also felt that the incentive given at the beginning of 
the game, which
offers a discount or free item at the museum gift shop, was unnecessary as 
motivation to
play the game. Overall, it is important to respect visitors and acknowledge 
that they want to
learn. While an over-reliance on game features or incentives could suggest that 
the museum
thinks that visitors need to be tricked into learning, which is insulting to 
visitors, some game
aspects and incentives can be fun and encouraging. The final game does include 
a nominal
incentive, meant as a promotion for the gift shop rather than a hard-handed way 
to make
users play a game, and was appreciated as such.

Track Your Visit

When testing this feature, users were asked about their preferences for 
receiving follow-up
content for artworks that they saved during a visit. Some expected and wanted 
to have
an account on the museum’s website, some wanted an email with links to content, 
others
wanted it to be accessible from the museum website without needing to create an 
account
with the museum, and still others wanted their list of works to appear in their 
Facebook
accounts. Given the varied responses and the issues of content copyright, 
public versus
private saved lists, and if no account is made, determining when a museum 
should remove
a user’s list, this feature requires more investigation. In the final guide, 
users are given the
option of emailing themselves a link that will direct them to view their list 
on the museum’s
desktop website. If users choose not to use that feature, they can still view 
their saved works
through the mobile guide at the museum or later at home.

Visual Hierarchy

First versions of the guide copy were improved based on user feedback and 
include in-
creased visual hierarchy (additional headings, section demarcations, and use of 
bold text to
reveal highlights).


8.5  Final Guide Design

The following figures 8.6 and 8.7 show screenshots of the finished guide and 
figures 8.8
and 8.9 show a sample scenario of two visitors using the guide.



Home screen gives users informa-
tion about current exhibitions
and helps them to plan their vist.

Hall menu helps users choose a
way to view the exhibition that
best matches with their interests.

Q & A creates a dialog and en-
courages users to engage with
works by examining details. Lo-
cal examples connect to visitors’
daily lives and past experiences.

Visitor types served:

Explorers
Experience Seekers
Facilitators

Hobbyists/Professionals


The Match Game directs users to
look closely at the works and
encourages their curiousity
through the searching nature of
the game.

Connections to other exhibi-
tions in the Museum of Natural
History encourages users to
expand their interests and may
also help users with more inter-
est in natural history connect
with artwork.

Figure 8.6: Screenshots of sample guide screens, and how the features 
illustrated support
visitor engagement.



Artwork menu helps users
choose a way to learn about the
artwork that best matches their
interests.

Related works and content
creates connections with the art-
works and with broader culture
and history, giving visitors more
ways to relate to the artworks.

Location information and
photos of the original buildings
from which the casts were taken
makes the works come alive and
seem more relevant.

Visitor types served:

Explorers
Experience Seekers
Facilitators

Hobbyists/Professionals


Diagrams help explain archite-
cural terms, making novices
feel more comfortable in the
exhibition, an important step in
becoming engaged.

Saving artworks allows visitors
to explore favorite works more
deeply after their visit, freeing
them to explore broadly at the
museum and pay attention to
the works rather than becoming
distracted by the guide content.

Figure 8.7: Screenshots of sample guide screens, and how the features 
illustrated support
visitor engagement.


Sample Use-Case

David is visiting the museum with his girlfriend Christine. He sees a notice 
about the
guide in the Hall of Architecture and uses the guide to learn about Gothic 
Architecture,
view an example of the style, and nd related works in the museum.


1 Exhibition Home Screen
David sees sign at the en-
trance to the exhibition and
scans a QR code to view this
screen.

2 Gothic Architecture Section
He clicks “Architectural
Styles” and then selects
“Gothic.”

3 Example of the Gothic Style
He crolls down and sees an
example of the style that is in
the gallery.

Figure 8.8: Sample scenario of visitors David and Christine.



4 Q & A About the Example
David and Christine walk to
the cast and learns about
the style through examining
details of the cast. They also
see local examples that they

recognize. This helps them to
understand common char-
acteristics of Gothic architec-
ture and makes a connection
to their prior experiences.

5 Cast Information

David clicks to get more in-
formation about the example
work, Cathedral St. Andre,
and then chooses ”Related
Works.”

6 Related Work

David reads about Chinese
sculpture and starts to think
about what might have been
going on in di!erent countries
at the time that St. Andre was
built. He and Christine decide
to "nish viewing the current
exhibition and then view this
sculpture in the Art Before
1300 Gallery.

Figure 8.9: Sample scenario of visitors David and Christine.



9 Conclusion

Museums and other educational institutions are underutilized by many visitors. 
A mo-
bile guide, available on visitors’ own devices and containing resonant, rich 
and interactive
information, will encourage visitors to further explore exhibitions and become 
engaged.
Through the planning, exploring, and reviewing stages of their visits, visitors 
can find exhi-
bitions that speak to their interests; discover multi-faceted content that 
makes connections
between the exhibitions and their interests, past experiences and goals; and 
continue the
experience at home. Access and control over the guide content will encourage 
and support
visitors beginning or continuing self-guided learning.

9.1  Feasibility & Implementation

The prototype guide system is built on existing technologies and does not 
require any hard-
ware installation. The guide is a Web application, accessible from any 
Internet-enabled
device, provided the user has a data plan or access to a network (such as the 
museum’s wire-
less network). If an institution would like to implement such a guide, they 
should consider
installing wireless access in their galleries if they have not done so already. 
Free wireless
access allows those users with limited data plans or slow connections greater 
access to the
guide. The guide system is built as a Web application as opposed to a native 
(platform-
specific) application, because it provides the greatest access for the greatest 
number of
visitors and requires less development time and cost—one application can be 
built for all
users instead of a separate application for each device platform (or simply one 
application
for one platform, leaving many without access).

To directly access content about a specific gallery or work, users scan QR 
codes on
museum brochures, signs, and object labels by taking a picture through a QR 
code scanner
application installed on their phone. The codes are fast, easy, and free to 
create. In the
future, as more NFC-enabled phones come on the market, NFC will become a viable 
(and
likely preferable option) to QR codes. Flat NFC stickers can be placed on 
museum labels
and visitors can be directed to simply tap their phone or place it near the 
sticker to access
the guide (without the need to install any scanner application).

In terms of guide content, institutions will need to build a database of the 
works and
related content that they would like to include in the guide; many are already 
creating
such databases. Researching, organizing, and deciding which content to include 
is a large
task, but any additional information about the works is an improvement over 
current object
labels. The guide can begin small, perhaps restricted to one gallery, and 
change and expand
as visitor feedback is gathered and more content is added.

51


9.2  Future Work

This project is focused on developing an understanding of the space of art 
museums and
visitors, and developing a specific case study to prototype a possible 
implementation. The
conceptual findings and experimental results, however, can be used to create a 
larger appli-
cation at a variety of museums. Moving forward, exhibitions should be evaluated 
and key
themes or ways of viewing the works determined. Curators and museum educators 
may
already have such knowledge, but lack a platform such as this guide system to 
share all of
their information. Future work might also include:

• Testing the inclusion of visitor stories related to a particular exhibition. 
In order to
include substantive content from visitors, a physical space could be provided 
outside
of the gallery where visitors are encouraged to share their stories, as 
text-entry on
mobile devices is difficult.

• Creating follow-up interactions on the museum website or through social media 
chan-
nels.


Bibliography

[1] Acoustiguide. Smartphone applications: Acoustiguide smartour, 2010. 
Available from

http://www.acoustiguide.com/smartphone-applications.

[2] Antenna Audio. Pentimento, 2010. Available from 
http://www.discoverpentimento.com/.

[3]  Herbert Bay, Beat Fasel, and Luc Van Gool. Interactive museum guide, 2005. 
The Seventh
International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing UBICOMP, Workshop on Smart
Environments and Their Applications to Cultural Heritage, September 2005.

[4] Robin Cembalest. Reshaping the art museum. ARTnews, 2009.

[5] 2010 Tate Handheld Conference. 2010. Available from

http://tatehandheldconference.pbworks.com/w/page/19520838/2010-Handheld-Conferen
ce.

[6] Musee du Louvre. My guide, 2010. Available from

http://monguide.louvre.fr/index.php?p=monGuide.

[7] John H. Falk. Identity and the Museum Visitor Experience. Left Coast Press, 
2009.

[8]  John H. Falk and Lynn D. Dierking. Learning from Museums: Visitor 
Experiences and the
Making of Meaning. AltaMira Press, 2000.

[9]  Center for the Future of Museums. Do innovation, and diversity, sometimes 
look like failure?

American Association of Museums: Center for the Future of Museums, June 15, 
2010.

Available from

http://futureofmuseums.blogspot.com/2010/06/do-innovation-and-diversity-sometime
s.html.

[10] Espro Acoustiguide Group. Company profile, 2010. Available from

http://www.acoustiguide.com/company-profile.

[11] H. Gutierrez and J. Heimberg. Dallas museum of art presents the arts 
network. Museums and
the Web 2007: Proceedings, Toronto: Archives & Museum Informatics, published 
2007.

[12] The Smithsonian Institution. Visit cooper-hewitt, 2010. Available from

http://exhibitions.cooperhewitt.org/Design-USA/visit.

[13] Ken Johnson. 3,344 people may not know art but know what they like. The 
New York Times,
July 4, 2008. Available from

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/04/arts/design/04clic.html.

[14] Jong-woon Yoo Ki-woong Park, Sung Kyu Park and Kyu Ho Park. Towards 
interactive
museum: Mapping cultural contexts to historical objects, 2009. Presented at ACM 
Mobile
HCI 2009.

[15] Amanda Krantz, Randi Korn, and Margaret Menninger. Rethinking museum 
visitors: Using
k-means cluster analysis to explore a museum’s audience. Curator: The Museum 
Journal,
October 2009, 2009.

53


[16] Smithsonian American Art Museum. Art activities: Ghosts of a chance game, 
2010.
Available from http://www.americanart.si.edu/calendar/activities/ghosts/.

[17] The Brooklyn Museum. Bklynmuse. Available from

http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/visit/bklynmuse.php.

[18] The Mattress Factory Art Museum. Available from http://www.mattress.org.

[19] The Carnegie Museum of Art. Carnegie museum of art 2009 annual report, 
2009.

[20] The Carnegie Museum of Art. What are museums for? exhibitionists unite: 
How art
exhibitions are born, 2010. Video shown during a public lecture given at the 
Carnegie
Museum of Art on October 28, 2010.

[21] Art Institute of Chicago. Self-guide, 2010. Available from

http://www.artic.edu/aic/visitor_info/selfguide/index.html.

[22] The San Francsico Museum of Modern Art. Public tours. Available from

http://www.sfmoma.org/pages/tours_public.

[23] Bonnie Pitman and Ellen Hirzy. Ignite the Power of Art: Advancing Visitor 
Engagement in
Museums. Yale University Press, 2011.

[24] Steve.Museum project. Steve.museum, 2010. Available from 
http://www.steve.museum/.

[25] Nina Simon. Museum 2.0 deliberately unsustainable. American Association of 
Museums,
available from http://www.aam-us.org/pubs/mn/museumtwopointo.cfm.

[26] Nina Simon. The Participatory Museum. Left Coast Press, Inc., 2010.

[27] Koven J. Smith. The ipod tour at the cooper-hewitt national design museum, 
2010. Available
from http://kovenjsmith.com/archives/311.

[28] Roberta A. Smith. A guided tour in the palm of your hand, 2010. Available 
from

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/15/arts/design/15design.html.

[29] Loic Tallon. Digital Technologies and the Museum Experience: Handheld 
Guides and Other
Media, chapter Introduction: Mobile, Digital, and Personal. AltaMira Press, 
2008.

[30] Eduard Tan and Katri Oinonen. How (not) to personalize content 
presentation in museum
exhibitions: Visitors want control, 2006. Paper presented at the annual meeting 
of the
International Communication Association, Dresden International Congress Centre, 
Dresden,
Germany.

[31] Carnegie Mellon University. Dining & dorms, 2010. Available from

http://www.cmu.edu/student-life/food.shtml, accessed November 13, 2010.


Appendix A

Current Mobile Guides

SFMOMA

The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art’s SFMOMA guide [22] is a native 
application
for both the iPhone and Android phones. The application allows visitors to get 
information
about visiting the museum (hours, prices, etc.), view artwork by museum floor, 
and also
enter codes to get information about a specific piece of art. The information 
available to
users is primarily audio content and thumbnails of the artwork. While users can 
access the
guide content outside of the museum, it is only easy for them to browse the 
highlights listed
by floor as the other works must all be accessed though stop numbers, which can 
only be
found next to each piece of work in the museum. This system is an example of a 
simple
guide that primarily replicates audio guide features, and is not making use of 
many features
possible on new devices.

The Louvre

The Louvre’s Mon Guide system comes on a small device about the size of a 
smartphone or
PDA and users navigate with the help of a stylus. The system provides many 
features such
as an interactive map; video commentaries in multiple languages, including sign 
language;
and tour options (by “theme, duration or difficulty” [6]). Information about 
specific art-
works is accessed by entering numeric codes listed next to the physical works. 
The Louvre
also has plans to make the guide commentaries available on their website so 
that visitors
can continue to use the content at home. Extending the life of guide content 
can encourage
visitors to continue learning after their visit and also relieve them of 
worrying that they have
to use all of the guide content during the visit so that they can spend more 
time enjoying
the actual artwork at the museum.

The Cooper-Hewitt

In addition to companies that focus on mobile guides, more general design 
studios are also
adding guides to their offerings. The well-received guide for the 
Cooper-Hewitt’s tempo-
rary exhibition Design USA: Contemporary Innovation at the National Design 
Museum
was created by the graphic design firm 2x4. Their guide included artist 
interviews, videos
and images, as well as the ability to comment on the exhibition [12].

Visitor comments were displayed publicly in the museum and also posted online to
Twitter. While soliciting and displaying visitor comments can create a sense of 
dialog and
a respect for visitor opinions, there is the possibility that comments will be 
off-topic, insen-
sible or simply boring. The question of how and to what extent museums should 
include

55


visitor input is debatable and controversial within the museum community. The 
answer
may depend largely on variables such as the museum’s culture, goals, specific 
exhibition
topics and anticipated audience.

Another novel aspect to the guide is that it pulls content from public sources 
such as
YouTube. Making use of pre-existing content can be helpful to museums because 
they
often have thousands of artworks and insufficient time and staffing to develop 
or curate
interpretive content. However, the trade-off with this practice is precisely 
that the content
is not truly curated and may not fit an exhibition as well as content created 
by or at least
reviewed by the museum. The Cooper Hewitt guide did receive some criticism that 
the
YouTube videos to which they linked were much too long to view during a visit 
and were
thus distracting and frustrating [27].

The Brooklyn Museum

The Brooklyn Museum is known for experimentation and innovation [9] [13]. One 
experi-
ment they have tried is asking visitors to tag artworks with descriptive words. 
The tagging
activity is offered as “Gallery Tag!,” a game in which users choose a word such 
as “Lion”
or “Fruit” and then enter an artwork’s numeric code when they see a work that 
matches
that tag. When a user is finished playing, he can see his score (based on 
number of works
tagged), enter his initials, and view the top scores. The game is available 
online and can
be played in the museum or using the museum’s online collection. Like the 
steve.museum
project [24], this example of tagging is not especially fun or engaging—there 
is no learning
or other reward for visitors’ efforts beyond seeing their score.

The guide [17] also incorporates buttons that visitors can press to indicate 
that they
like a particular artwork. The number of “votes” that an artwork receives is 
used in order
to recommend artworks to other visitors. Like 2x4’s inclusion of uncurated 
content, this
leverages the work of others but risks providing lower-quality content than 
that generated
by  the museum. In particular, these user-generated recommendations do not 
provide any
explanation of why an artwork was compelling or how it relates to other works 
in the
exhibition, as one would expect with museum-generated recommendations.

The Mattress Factory

The Mattress Factory [18], a small installation art museum, provides links to 
interpretive
content such as artist process and interview videos through QR codes placed on 
artwork
wall labels. This simple and inexpensive system has allowed a small museum to 
efficiently
provide additional content to interested visitors without distracting from the 
artwork as
might larger and additional wall labels. Visitors enter the exhibitions and 
whenever they
read a label, they can choose to get more information by reading the code with 
a (typically
free) application on their own device (typically a smartphone). In this way, 
visitors do not
have to make an upfront decision about using a guide and the guide is 
advertised through-
out the exhibitions (on the wall labels), so that visitors are aware of the 
option to use a
guide. Interesting content can easily be saved for later viewing by using the 
bookmarking
capability already built into browsers.


Appendix B

User Research

I conducted interviews with professionals at local art museums, a gallery and 
with under-
graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University. My direct research (IRB 
HS10-447), in
combination with my literature reviews and other findings, led to several 
design criteria that
drove the concept development phase of the project.

Museum Professionals

I conducted interviews at the Carnegie Museum of Art, The Mattress Factory (an 
instal-
lation art museum) and the Society for Contemporary Craft (a gallery and 
instructional
center). The professionals to whom I spoke came from a variety of areas 
including cura-
tion, education, and marketing. The focus of the interviews was the 
professionals’ goals
for visitor experience, and what the institutions have tried in order to 
support visitor ex-
perience. I also attended public lectures given by the Carnegie Museum of Art’s 
director,
curator of education, and curator of contemporary art; attended a lecture by 
Nina Simon,
a well-known, visitor-engagement strategist; and attended Culture Club, a 
recurring social
event at the Carnegie Museum of Art where visitors meet other visitors and 
museum staff
for art-related discussions.

Undergraduate Students

In order to better understand undergraduate students and how they experience 
museums, I
interviewed students in the Carnegie Museum of Art and asked them to think 
aloud as they
viewed artwork in several galleries. Through this technique I was able to gain 
insight into
what questions and impressions participants had about the museum. I also 
interviewed stu-
dents on the Carnegie Mellon University campus and conducted an online survey 
about lo-
cal free-choice learning sites, experience with visual art and personal 
interests. Through this
research I developed several personas of students which I then used to generate 
scenarios
in which a mobile guide could help student visitors in art museums. Research 
participants
were all Carnegie Mellon University students but came from a variety of 
departments, such
as Chemical Engineering, Mathematics, Design, Professional Writing, and Global 
Studies.
They had varying degrees of free time and affinity for visual art and museums. 
Some were
given nominal gift cards in appreciation of their participation.

57


Scenarios

Rick and Anna

Current Experience

At the museum, Rick takes a look at the brochure he picked up. He has not been 
to this
particular museum before, so he is not sure what to see. They could rent audio 
guides, but
decide not to because they want to talk to each other, rather than listen 
alone. There is not
much information in the brochure about the galleries, so Rick and Anna just 
wander into a
nearby gallery. Anna has questions about the artwork, but Rick can not answer 
any of them,
so she soon stops asking and they just gaze at the artworks as they continue 
along.

Future Experience

When they enter an exhibition area, Rick and Anna notice an introductory sign 
with infor-
mation about a guide. They don not need to go back to the admissions area to 
check out
the guide, because it is online and Rick has a smartphone. He takes his phone 
and scans a
QR code on the sign to quickly access the guide. It has an overview of the 
exhibition and
suggests a few ways that the works connect to each other. Rick also sees that 
they can get
information about any specific work that they are interested in, or even do a 
scavenger hunt
game that will teach them about a related subset of the exhibition. Rick and 
Anna continue
viewing the exhibition while the guide stories and images serve as a launching 
point for
conversations about the artwork. Some works are intriguing and have a lot of 
related con-
tent    in the guide, including links to Wikipedia and news articles, so they 
save those works
and will investigate them further at home. With the help of the guide, Rick and 
Anna have
an entry point for connecting with the artworks. Rick is glad that Anna had a 
good time and
is pleasantly surprised that he really enjoyed the museum. Next time, he will 
challenge her
to do the scavenger hunt with him.

Nicole

Current Experience

Nicole arrives at the art museum and studies the brochure. She wants to know if 
they have
any famous artworks that she should see. There are a few highlights mentioned 
in the
brochure and one of them is a large waterlily painting by Monet which she 
thinks must be
very impressive, so she decides to check it out. She enjoys the watercolor 
painting and then
begins to walk through the galleries. She sees other paintings by artists that 
she recognizes
and feels that she is seeing some important artwork.

Future Experience

Nicole walks through the galleries and notices a painting by John Singer 
Sargent. She thinks
that he is famous, but she does not remember anything in particular about him. 
She likes
his painting and reads the label next to it. There is a note on it about a 
smartphone guide
and Nicole wonders if there is any interesting information about the artwork or 
the artist,
so she uses her phone to scan the code on the artwork label. She reads about 
Sargent’s life
and some background on the painting, which is a portrait of a well-to-do 
family. There are
even photographs of the estate where the family lived. Nicole tries to imagine 
what it might


Cheryl A. Templeton                59

have been like to live back then and in such an estate. She wonders about 
Sargent’s social
status—if whether the gentry who he painted respected him or treated him as 
lower-class.
Nicole has a lot of questions now, but there is still a lot to see at the 
museum, so she decides
to save the artwork and look into it more when she gets home. At the end of her 
visit,
Nicole feels that she saw important and impressive artwork and also got a 
chance to think
more deeply about the works and issues related to them.

Cassie and Katherine

Current Experience

Cassie and Katherine get museum brochures at the entrance and begin to wander 
through
the galleries. Cassie sees some paintings that she likes and takes photos of 
them. After the
visit, Cassie enjoys looking at the photos that she took, but she does not feel 
like she learned
a lot during her visit and can not remember the names of the artworks that she 
liked.

Future Experience

Cassie and Katherine are in one of the galleries when Cassie notices that a 
wall label has
a code on it. She takes a closer look at the label and finds out that she can 
view more
information about the painting by the label by using her smartphone. She checks 
it out and
is taken to some content about the painting. There is an interesting story 
about the artist, so
she calls Katherine over. Cassie and Katherine think about the story and look 
back to the
painting. They can now see that the artist created tension in the painting by 
using very fine,
soft brushstrokes to depict a violent scene. The artist grew up in Hungary, 
like Cassie’s
grandparents. She decides to save the story and an image of the painting so 
that she can
send it to her dad when she gets home. Cassie gained insight into some of the 
artworks and
feels a little more confident in her abilities to discuss visual art—she even 
recommends the
museum to other friends.

Cassie feels like she has learned something and has some understanding of art 
even
though it is outside of her field of expertise. Cassie tells others about her 
visit because
she is proud that she has ventured outside of her normal activities and is 
becoming more
”well-rounded.“

Martin

Current Experience

Martin is taking a class on the history of American furniture design and has to 
choose a
topic for his final research paper. He heads over to the Carnegie Museum of Art 
to see their
furniture collection—maybe he will be inspired and come up with a topic. Martin 
sees that
there are a lot of chairs in the collection; maybe he will do a paper about 
American chair
design, he thinks. Back at his apartment Martin starts searching online and 
trying to figure
out what he can say about chair design.

Future Experience

Martin sees a small label by a chair with some dates, the designer’s name, and 
a note about
the museum’s mobile guide to the collection. Martin takes out his phone and 
find the guide
online. He is taken to information about the chair at which he is looking and 
learns that its


design is a precursor to the ergonomics movement. There are links in the guide 
to related
works and he finds a couple of other examples of ergonomics, as well as other 
19th century
American furniture and some examples of contemporary failures in ergonomics. 
Martin
thinks that the development of the ergonomics movement in American furniture 
sounds
like an interesting topic because a lot of products are still not very 
comfortable to use. He
feels like he already has some good information to start his research.


Appendix C

UI Design

Color

The prototype uses a light blue for UI elements such as buttons (See Figure 2). 
The color
blue is generally thought of as a cool, calming color and it goes well with 
most other colors
(an important consideration when dealing with visual content such as images of 
artworks).
The Carnegie Museum of Art’s website uses minimal color and is primarily black 
and white
with red links. While it might seem reasonable to adapt the link color from the 
desktop
website to the UI controls of the mobile website, red could be overwhelming 
when used for
the large buttons found in touchscreen interfaces such as those for mobile 
websites.

When creating a mobile guide, a decision should be made about whether it should
match or coordinate with the desktop website or whether it should have a 
separate look. In
general, integration should be the default as guide users may already be 
familiar with the
desktop site and integration can help to build the brand of the institution. 
However, if there
is  a guide for a particular audience, such as children, it may be appropriate 
to deviate from
the look of the desktop site. Aside from the UI controls, the guide is 
primarily black and
white, as the content is of primary concern and the UI style is meant to 
support the content
rather than draw attention to itself.

Typography

Cantarell, a sans-serif typeface, was selected for its legibility and clean 
look. While there
are several common sans-serif web typefaces, a non-standard one was included in 
the site
in order to give the site a subtly different look that will set it apart.

Grid

Given the limited screen space available to mobile websites, the guide 
primarily uses a one-
column grid (see Figure 1). Pages that include lists of thumbnails and related 
comments
use a three-column grid with the image in the left column and text spanning the 
remaining
two columns. Although images are rich and inviting, limiting thumbnails to one 
column is
necessary to allow room for text with a comfortable line-length.

Image Selection and Treatment

When possible, professional photographs are included. While users may want a 
realistic
view of the location of an artwork or how it looked at various times, snapshots 
or pho-
tographs with poor lighting or contrast will not inspire users in the way that 
higher-quality

61


Grid Overviews

295px                       95px   190px

10px                        10px


10px             10px

10px

10px

10px

Figure 1: UI grid structures

Color Palette


90B3C2

C2C76C

D4B04F

E0DAB8

D4E8F1

Figure 2: Color palette and Hex codes

images will. Images in the guide have rounded corners to create a softer and 
more casual
appearance, inline with encouraging novices to feel comfortable in the museum 
and with
the interpretive content.

Navigation Style

The guide uses a common mobile UI pattern with a vertical navigation list and 
arrows
indicating whether the item will take the user up or down in the system 
hierarchy. This
pattern was chosen because many users may have experience navigating through 
similar
systems. Another pattern, based on application screens of mobile phones, was 
explored
(Figure 3), but was found to be inappropriate as it relies primarily on icons 
and leaves little
room for textual labels. As many guide users will be first-time users, it would 
likely be
more efficient for them to read a text label as opposed to learning an icon. 
Additionally,
it can be difficult to define logical or intuitive icons for abstract 
navigation items such as
those on the home screen of the guide.

A constant (always on screen) navigation element was considered instead of the 
navi-


Cheryl A. Templeton                63

Figure 3: Alternate navigation style

gation that now appears at the bottom of each page when scrolled. A scrolling 
navigation
was chosen in order to save screen space for content since, based on user 
observation, users
primarily use the back button on their phone instead of the on-screen 
navigation. If a user
does enter the guide at a content page (perhaps by scanning the QR code next to 
an artwork)
then the on-screen navigation will be essential for that user to navigate the 
hierarchy of the
guide.

The key considerations in creating the navigation system for the guide were 
intuitive-
ness (achieved through using a known design pattern) and enabling the user to 
quickly
evaluate their options. With the chosen style, there is ample room for 
descriptive titles and
all of the text is aligned and easy to scan, making is easy for users to 
evaluate their options.

Progressive Enhancements

Some style choices, as seen in the screenshots, will not appear in all browsers 
because they
depend on support for CSS3. However, major platforms such as the iPhone and 
Android
phones use Webkit-based browsers which support the inclusion of such features 
as embed-
ded typefaces and the rounded corners used in the guide.



Appendix D

Interpretive Aids for the Carnegie Museum of Art

The mobile guide should be integrated with other interpretive aids in the 
museum. The
following figures show examples of how that integration can be accomplished. 
When NFC-
enabled mobile phones become more common, it will be possible to use icons in 
place of
QR codes (See Section 9.1).

Cast of colossal bust of Athena

Site: Tivoli, Italy

Origin: Greek, 450-500 BCE

Present location: Glyptothek Museum, Munich


More information

Smartphones

Use your phone’s application to
scan this QR code and you will
be taken to our online museum
guide or visit

www.cmoa.org/guide/mobile

Cell phones

Call (412) 555-5555

Object ID: #555

Figure 4: Object labels, such as this one, should provide QR codes to access 
the guide.

65


Carnegie Museum of Art

T€ H‚‚ ƒ„ A…†‡ˆ€†ˆ‰…€

S€‚„-G‰‡!€! Tƒ‰…‡"#

Smartphones

Use your phone’s application to scan this QR
code and you will be taken to our online mu-
seum guide or visit
www.cmoa.org/guide/mobile

Whenever you see a code on an artwork’s label,
you can scan it to get more information, such
as  a curator commentary, historical context, or
related works. See the museum brochure for
more details.


Commentary

Architectural Styles

Scavenger Hunt

Figure 5: Signs at the entrances to galleries, such as this one, should inform 
visitors about
the mobile guide and provide QR codes to access the guide.

